Alright, let's talk about the handoff.
This is Stage 4 in the pipeline, and it is
make or break.
You've done discovery.
You know the story. The seller is qualified.
They're motivated. And they're ready to hear
an offer.
Now it's time to hand this lead to the
acquisition team.
And I cannot stress enough how much a good
handoff matters.
Bad handoffs kill deals that should have
closed.
Here's what the process looks like.
First, complete your CRM notes.
Every field filled out.
Every detail from discovery documented.
The acquisition manager should be able to
read your notes and understand the seller's
full situation without having to call you
and ask 20 questions.
If they have to chase you down for basic
info, that's on you.
Second, brief the acquisition manager.
And I don't mean just drop a lead in their
queue and walk away.
Give them real context.
Something like, this is Diane in Dayton.
She's had a duplex for 11 years, and she's
completely burned out from tenant issues.
She's two months behind on taxes and wants
to sell before the end of summer.
She inherited the place from her father, and
there's some emotional attachment there.
So be sensitive to that.
See how much information is packed into
that?
The acquisition manager can walk into that
call completely prepared.
They know the story. They know the pressure
points.
And they know where to be careful.
Third, either warm transfer the seller directly
to the acquisition manager while you've
still got them on the phone or set a
specific appointment.
You might say something like, what I'd like
to do next is connect you with our
acquisitions team. They're the ones who will
evaluate the property and put together a
formal offer for you. Can I set up a call
for tomorrow at 2 p.m.?
Give them a specific time.
Don't leave it vague.
And fourth, frame the handoff for the seller
so they know what's coming.
Don't just disappear on them.
Say something like, so here's what happens
next.
Our acquisition manager is going to reach
out to you.
They'll ask a few more detailed questions
about the property, and then they'll put
together an offer for you.
No pressure, no obligation.
You can take as long as you need to think
about it.
That gives the seller confidence that
there's a real process here.
Real people are involved.
They're not being bounced around randomly
between strangers.
Before you move any lead to stage four, make
sure you've got the full seller story
documented, their motivation clearly articulated,
their timeline confirmed, the property
condition described, their price expectations
noted, the decision maker confirmed, their
financial situation understood, including
mortgage balance and any liens or back taxes,
their best contact time and method noted,
any hot buttons or sensitivities flagged, and
the acquisition manager.
If you can check all of those, you've done
your job.
A thorough handoff is what separates someone
who's just okay at this from someone who's
genuinely good.
Let me tell you what kills handoffs, because
I've seen all of these happen.
Incomplete information.
The acquisition manager has to re-ask
everything you already covered, and the seller
gets frustrated.
I already told the other person all of this.
That's a terrible start to what should be a
smooth process.
Next, no context on motivation.
The acquisition manager doesn't know the
emotional drivers, accidentally steps on a
landmine, and the seller shuts down
completely.
And no warm introduction.
The seller gets a random call from someone
new and their guard goes right back up.
They're thinking, Oh, great, here we go
again.
Avoid those three things and you're going to
be in great shape.
That's discovery and handoff.
Now let's go practice.
Your roleplay for this module is a tired
landlord who's been dealing with a duplex for
11 years and has just about had it.
Show us what you've got.